# GettingDataCourseProject

This repository host the submission for the course project of the Coursera course: Getting and Cleaning Data

## Introduction
The code of run_analysis.R perform the following 5 steps as given in the instruction.


1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
5. Creates a tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

## Detailed steps with variables
### Step 1

`X_train`, `y_train`, `subject_train`, `X_test`, `y_test`, `subject_test` contains the data loaded from downloaded txt files. 

Then `train_test` containg the training and testing data are generated using cbind() and rbind()

### Step 2

`features` load the features corresponding to the columns of `X_train` and `X_test` files. 

`mean_and_std_positions` use grep to locate the feature names with either `mean()` or `std()`

`train_test_selected` contains the subset of `train_test` that needs further analysis.

### Step 3
`activity_labels` loads the activity labels and the corresponding activity names. It's merged with `train_test_selected` by the activity lable to get `all_data`.

`all_data` has both the activity labels and the activity names.

### Step 4

Modify `names(all_data)` to label the data set with descriptive variable names.

### Step 5
I create `tidy_data` by using aggregate() function and then save it into **tidy_data.txt** file

## Files
**README.md** is this README file

**CodeBook.md** describes the procedures and variables

**run_analysis.R** is the R code to do the analysis and save a tidy data

**UCI HAR Dataset** is the folder contained the original data collected. The detailed explanation is [here](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).

**tidy_data.txt** is the tidy data requred for submission. It's generated by the last step of the run_analysis.R code.  


## References
The community TA's posts in the forum are quite helpful for me to finish the project:

* [FAQ](https://class.coursera.org/getdata-031/forum/thread?thread_id=28)
* [Tidy Data](https://class.coursera.org/getdata-031/forum/thread?thread_id=113)